---
layout: dbs
categories: labs
title: 5. týždeň
published: true
---

## Cvičenia v piatom týždni

Aj v tomto týždni skúsime na cvičenia použiť webovú aplikáciu [query](https://query.fiit.stuba.sk).

Keby sa niečo veľmi veľmi pokazilo, tak tu je [skript](/labs/files/lab04/projects_dump.sql) na vytvorenie tabuliek a ich inicializáciu dátami.

Úlohy, ktoré je potrebné riešiť:


1. Write a SELECT, which returns average number of days (rounded to two decimal places), for which all programmers are registered in our database.
2. Write a SELECT, which returns name of projects along with total number of days, programmers spent on them (let's assume that, once added to the project, progra
mmers are working on the project every day).
3. Write a SELECT, which returns the project with most programmers. If there are more such projects, then return all of them.
4. Write a SELECT, which returns name of every programming language along with the name of the oldest project for the given programming language. Those languages, which do not have a project yet should also be included in the result set. Instead of a project name, they should display a 'no project yet' statement. Hint: COALESCE function.
5. Write a SELECT, which returns names of all programming languages along with number of programmers, who use them.
6. Write a SELECT, which returns names of all programming languages along with number of projects, which use these languages. Ordered from greatest to smallest. In case of equality, order languages lexicographically. Try to use index of a column instead of its name.
7. Write a SELECT, which returns total number of days, for which ruby programmers are registered in our database.
8. Write a SELECT, which returns name of projects along with number of programmers working on them.
9. Write a SELECT, which the project with most programmers. If there are more such projects, then apply lexicographic ordering and return the first one.

